Subject: Public Whip Newsletter #9 - Election retrospective

Welcome to The Public Whip newsletter number 9.

We've been busy:
   - watching the Election
   - updating dream MPs
   - looking at Lords

The Public Whip ( http://www.publicwhip.org.uk ) is a project to
data-mine the record of Members of the United Kingdom Parliament,
so that you can hold them to account.

The Election
------------

Over the Election, our traffic doubled, with many people looking
at detailed voting records on specific issues for Cambridge,
Manchester Withington and Bristol West - all university area
seats that had unexpectedly large swings, and a change in MP.

In April + May (to 10th) Public Whip has had 55,000 unique
visitors looking at 0.9 million pages. In April + May (to 18th)
TheyWorkForYou has had 160,000 unique visitors looking at 1.2
million pages.

Here are the voting record issues you were most interested in:
    iraq
    gay rights
    top-up fees
    foundation hospitals

The MPs you were most interested in the voting record of were:
    Anne Campbell, Cambridge
    George Galloway, Glasgow Kelvin
    Tony Blair, Sedgefield
    Valerie Davey, Bristol West
    Karen Buck, Regent Park & Kensington N
    Keith Bradley, Manchester Withington
    Rudi Vis, Finchley and Golders Green
    Keith Pollard, St Albans
    Kate Hoey, Vauxhall
    Diane Abbott, Hackney N & Stoke Newington
    David Lepper, Brighton Pavillion
    Oona King, Bethnal Green & Bow
    Michael Howard, Folkestone & Hythe
    Frank Dobson, Holburn & St Pancras
    Glenda Jackson, Hampstead & Highgate
    Paul Trustwell, Pudsey
(note that these are the seats as held before the election, so
George Galloway appears in Scotland still)

Three of those were university seats that changed MP and party;
were the students checking up how their MP voted in every
division on Iraq and student fees, rather than listening to the
spin about just one division?

Of the others Oona King lost her seat in a high profile, vicious
contest with George Galloway, and Diane Abbot is an MP who used
Public Whip to show her real voting record rather than the record
fabricated by her opponents. Of the top 16 MPs visited, all were
either party leaders, or involved in very strong challenges for
their seats. Where the election was most active locally (rather
than nationally), voters looked harder at the voting record of
their sitting MP.


Changes to publicwhip.org.uk
----------------------------

We recently recorded our 1,000,000th vote by an MP in our
database. 

We've improved your ability to show comparisons between MPs and
your Dream MPs. On each Dream MP page there is a postcode lookup
box, which compares that Constituency's MP to a Dream MP. You can
copy the HTML and put it on your own pages highlighting your own
issues.
        http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/dreammp.php?id=230

"3-line whip" has been added for Dream MPs. The phrase comes from
weekly whipping sheet from party whips to your MPs. It has an
agenda for the next week, and they underline divisions in
parliament which the MP is expected to attend. They triple
underline divisions that *must* be attended. You can now do this
for your own Dream MP, highlighting the important divisions and
giving them more weight when MPs are compared.

RSS ("Really Simple Syndication") of interesting divisions.  This
feed is really useful to keep track of what is happening in
parliament.  For more on RSS, see the FAQ
        http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/faq.php#rss

The "edit this" section for motion text now lets you also change
division titles, giving an easily understandable summary of what
is being voted on. e.g
        http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/division.php?date=2005-02-07&number=70
We're also looking for a new name for this feature, suggestions
welcome.

Because a picture equals a thousand words, we now have graphics
of MP distances from Dream MP on the Dream MP pages. You can
visually see how an MP compares to what you'd ideally like.
        http://publicwhip.org.uk/dreammps.php

Reading information in
----------------------

Public Whip and its sister project, TheyWorkForYou.com have had a
shared Parliamentary Parser for quite a while now. This is the
software which watches and reads the Parliament website, and
updates our databases with the latest changes. We've now made it
a separate project, so it is much clearer what software does
what, and how it feeds into both PW and TWFY
        http://ukparse.kforge.net

We've updated the FAQ to have more answers about who we are, and
   * What's your connection with TheyWorkForYou.com?
   * Are you happy to give interviews about Public Whip?
   * Do you make any money out of Public Whip?
   * Have you had any problems what you are doing?
http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/faq.php

Don't forget our tea room, the forum. Because of internet spam,
we've made it so you have to log into post - we hope you drop by
and say hello anyway!  
        http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/forum

Interesting Reading
-------------------

Julian's reviewed Philip Cowley's excellent book "Revolts and
Rebellions", about rebellions and parliamentary voting in Tony
Blair's first term.
http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/forum/viewtopic.php?t=59

MP uses TheyWorkForYou to get answers to his own written questions
http://johnhemming.blogspot.com/2005/05/interesting-answer-about-surestart.html

ID card voting record
http://www.no2id.net/mp_votes.php

Fancy people graphing using our MP data
http://www.1succeeded0failed0skipped.com/PermaLink.aspx?guid=22bd6d81-791b-4b43-8978-f092e3872b2e

Tony Blair supports TheyWorkForYou's goals?
http://www.theyworkforyou.com/debates/?id=2005-05-25.699.4&s=%22ensuring+that+when+people+are+speaking+in+Parliament%22#g700.2

And even the red tops like us...
http://www.thesun.co.uk/article/0,,2-2005211704,00.html

Until next time, remember: your MP remains your servant.

The Public Whip team.

----------------------------------------------------------------
Hit REPLY to tell us any thoughts you've had while reading

Subscribe a new address to this newsletter? Sign up here.
http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/account/register.php

Want to stop getting this newsletter? Login here and cancel your
subscription. http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/account/settings.php
