Subject: Public Whip Newsletter #5 - Dream up your perfect MP
Date: Mon, 12 Jul 2004 16:53:03 +0100
 
Welcome to the fifth Public Whip newsletter.

Inside this issue:
* Editorial
* Site Updates: "Dream MP"
* Useful Tool: "News Syndication"
* Project Spotlight: "Playing with Data"
* Public Whip in the News

The Public Whip ( http://www.publicwhip.org.uk ) is a project to
data-mine the record of Members of the United Kingdom Parliament, so
that you can hold them to account.

***********************************************************************
Editorial

Outside the window there are glorious clouds, sun and beautiful
British countryside.  I'm writing this on a train back from Wales,
excited as there is lots to tell you about this month.  Imagine an MP
who voted exactly the way you wanted them to.  Read the first section
below to find out how to turn your Dream MP into a reality.

If you haven't seen it already, check out http://www.theyworkforyou.com 
We've been working on it for the last nine months with the people who
made FaxYourMP.com.  Now you can scribble in the shared margins of a
virtual Hansard, and view a report card on your MP's performance.  Use
it to comment on funny happenings in parliament, to help collaborative
research on a topic you're interested in, or to watch closely every
speech your MP makes.  Let us know what you do with it.  We are always
looking for ideas.

Have a great summer.

 - Francis, The Public Whip ( http://www.publicwhip.org.uk )

***********************************************************************
Dream MP - Site Updates 

So, what's a Dream MP?  Let's start with an example.  Scott Matthewman
runs a website called The Gay Vote ( http://www.thegayvote.co.uk )
He has made an "dream" MP who always votes for equal sexual rights.
You can have a look at his MP here.

http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/dreammp.php?id=6

Looking at the "Divisions Attended" section, you can see that he has
voted 10 times in parliament, and which way he voted each time.  The
votes are during debates about Section 28, adoption and sexual
offences.  

Further down there is a a "Comparison to Real MPs".  This ranks the
MPs in order as to how well they do with gay rights.  An "agreement
score" of 100% means they have always voted the same as Scott's Dream
MP.  A score of 0% means they always voted differently.  You can see
some more Dream MPs here.  There aren't many yet.

http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/dreammps.php

Anyone can make their own Dream MP.  They could represent a single
issue you care about, like Scott.  Or an organisation, such as The
Countryside Alliance.  Or a new political party, or a prospective
parliamentary candidate.  Or just yourself, and things that you care
about.  To make one go here.  

http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/account/adddream.php

First you will need to log in.  If you are receiving this newsletter
from us, you already have an account.  Your username is at the bottom
of this email.  The password is the one you made when you signed up to
this newsletter.  If you've forgotten it, use the form:

http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/account/lostpass.php

Let us know how you get on.

Notice that if you click through from a Dream MP to a division, there
is a new section on the divisions pages.  This shows how any Dream MP
who voted in the division voted.  It's very useful for working out
what a division means.  And another incentive for you to make a Dream
MP for issues you care about, and get your point of view shown on the
site.

http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/division.php?date=2001-10-24&number=41

***********************************************************************
News Syndication - Useful Tool

Syndication on the Internet is when one website automatically
publishes data from another.  For example, these two MPs have put
their most recent speeches in parliament and written questions on
their homepages.  Look in the right hand sidebar for "recent
appearances" and "recent activity in parliament".

http://www.richardallan.org.uk/
http://www.normanlamb.org.uk/

But rather than having to update it themselves, it's updated
automatically from TheyWorkForYou.com.  This is done using the magic
of "RSS", which stands for "Really Simple Syndication".  If you'd like
to do this on your own website, but aren't sure how to go about it,
get in touch with us.

If you don't have your own website, you can use "RSS" on your own
computer.  You need some software called a "news aggregator".  This
puts together news from different websites in one place, much easier
than going to each website every day.  For more details on this, see
the section "What is RSS?" on the TheyWorkForYou.com site.

http://www.theyworkforyou.com/help/#rss

***********************************************************************
Playing with Data - Project Spotlight

Our regular data monger, Chris Lightfoot, has been having fun with
parliamentary word frequencies.   He's made a tool which lets you
enter words and plot a graph of how often they are spoken in the
house.  You can either compare two terms, or compare by party.
Colours represent the two terms, or else political parties with black
for "others".

http://beasts.org/U0 - for example, with "weapons of mass destruction"
http://beasts.org/Us1 - "iraq" vs. "terrorism"
http://pitt.beasts.org - try it with your own words

To do this, Chris has used our "XML files" of debates.  These are
structured data, like an Excel spreadsheet, but of all the speakers
and speeches in the House of Commons.  You can now download these XML
files yourself, and play with them.  The Debates and Written Answers
are available, and always kept up to date.

http://www.theyworkforyou.com/raw
http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/project/data.php

Using this data, some people have been talking about doing textual
analysis of the words used in parliament.  If you're interested in 
that, or in anything else you can do with our raw data, then you
can join the publicwhip-playing email list.

https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/publicwhip-playing

We talk about all sorts of things to do with the backend of The Public
Whip, related projects and having fun with the data.  And there are
some busy people in other Commonwealth countries...  If you have an
idea for something technologically similar to The Public Whip, then
sign up and perhaps together we can make it happen.

***********************************************************************
Public Whip in the News

There have been a couple of interesting articles about our new website
TheyWorkForYou.com in the newspapers.  Unfortunately you have to pay
to read the Independent one, but the Guardian one is free.

http://www.guardian.co.uk/online/news/0,12597,1233319,00.html
http://news.independent.co.uk/world/science_technology/story.jsp?story=536480

The MP's Modernisation of the House of Commons committee has issued
their first report.  It has a lot to say about the importance of having
a good parliament website.  Worth a read.  I'm particular pleased that
they recommend stopping use of the term "strangers" to refer to visitors
to the house!  It wasn't exactly friendly.  Next step -- the report goes
to whole house later in the year.

http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm200304/cmselect/cmmodern/368/36802.htm

On Thursday it's the New Statesman's New Media Award ceremony.  The
Public Whip have been shortlisted, so wish us luck.  It's well worth
looking at the shortlist for the awards, to get a feel for the kind of
organisations who are doing imaginative things with the internet.  And
what you might do for your own organisation next.

http://www.newstatesman.com/newmedia

***********************************************************************
Forward this newsletter to people who are interested
***********************************************************************

Subscribe a new address to this newsletter? Sign up here.
http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/account/register.php

Want to stop getting this newsletter? Login here and cancel your
subscription. http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/account/settings.php
