Subject: Flood an election with non-partisan information!

Welcome to the fifteenth Public Whip newsletter.

***********************************************************************

Hiya!

While eyes are nervously drawn to Obama and McCain, we're fighting the
ground war at a less known election just outside Edinburgh.

But we're not working for *any* political party.

Public Whip will be delivering non-partisan byelection leaflets in
Glenrothes this weekend, to help people decide how to vote based on
the issues that they care about.

Email us loving words of support. Send our press release (below)
to friendly journalists. Turn up and pound the streets to lift the
people out of the mire of non-evidence based campaigning, into the
bright dawn of informed voting.

It'll be a blast.

Francis

***********************************************************************
* Press release

Julian Todd (co-creator of Public Whip) and friends will be visiting
Glenrothes to deliver leaflets and promote the candidate party
election calculator (http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/byelection) before
the byelection that is taking place on 6 November.

Julian said: "Candidates for the UK Parliament normally focus their
campaigns on one or two local matters that are irrelevant to the
office they seek.  They rarely talk about the profound national issues
that Members of Parliament actually get to decide about.  This happens
at byelections all over the country."

He continued: "Questions such as nuclear weapons, energy security,
abortion rights, freedom of information regarding the bail-out of the
financial sector following mismanagement, and compulsory biometric ID
cards have been decided by and will continue to be decided by members
of parliament in the near future."

"In Parliament they don't worry about the traffic island at the end of
the street or the leader's wife's hairstyle on the campaign trail, so
it is a tragic disservice to the public to have the campaign leaflets
and media not reflecting this fact at the time it really matters --
during an election."

Julian will be delivering leaflets to voters in Glenrothes detailing a
selection of issues that have recently been decided by Parliament, and
how the parties whose candidates are standing voted for them.

He is also running an Election Quiz website on PublicWhip where people
can compare their political opinions against the voting habits of the
parties to find out which one best matches their views.

PublicWhip is the only webpage where you can find out about all the
votes cast by each MP in the UK Parliament since 1997.  It shares the
foundational software and exchanges links with mySociety's
TheyWorkForYou.com website, but has remained a personal and
self-funded private project of Francis Irving and Julian Todd for the
last five years. 

Call Francis on 07970 543358 for more chat and quotes.

***********************************************************************

Live in Edinburgh? Print out some copies of the flyer, and put them
through your neighbours doors. Let us know if you do! Download here:

http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/quiz/glenrothesflier.pdf

***********************************************************************

Subscribe a new address to this newsletter? Sign up here.
http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/newsletters/signup.php

Want to stop getting this newsletter?
http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/U/$TOKEN
