Subject: Public Whip - Press Release - the By-election

Welcome to the twelfth Public Whip newsletter.

Inside this issue:
* Press Release - Crewe and Nantwich by-election
* What you can do!

***********************************************************************
Press Release – Immediate Release
14 May 2008
The Public Whip

While activists are descending from all corners of the country to
Crewe & Nantwich to help with their partys' by-election campaigns,
volunteers from the Public Whip today launched an online questionnaire
to help people make up their minds about who to vote for. The webpage:

http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/byelection

... compares people’s opinions to the way each party has voted in
Parliament on a selection of important issues that have been in the
news in the last five years. It uses the web-site
www.theyworkforyou.com as a source of data.

As Julian Todd of Public Whip explained "An election is the one time
people have a direct say in what the politicians do. Unfortunately,
with slick sound-bites and colourful leaflets focussing on one or two
key points, it's easy to forget the bigger issues that will be decided
by the MP who eventually wins the seat."

Aidan McGuire said "The national issues which our MPs have control
over are not being discussed with the candidates during this campaign.
People are easily distracted by smaller matters like car parking
charges, when what is actually decided by those who are elected
include compulsory ID Cards, nuclear power plants, freedom of
information laws, and the strategic supply of fuel and electricity."

"We want people to remember the bigger issues and ask hard questions
of the candidates about how they would vote after they are elected.
People have become used to not being told what the policies are and
not insisting on their right to know."

Here in Crewe & Nantwich, the Labour candidate, Tamsin Dunwoody, is
running on her mother's name. Gwyneth Dunwoody was a popular MP partly
because she had a mind of her own and did not vote the government line
on every issue. How many people have looked up which were the issues
she rebelled on, and has anyone asked Tamsin whether she would take
the same position on those issues?

Julian said: "We want people to start using the internet more
effectively to understand what their MPs are doing and to keep a close
watch. Who knows, they might start doing more of what people want them
to do, rather than their own thing all the time. That's our idea of
what democracy would look like.

"That's why we’ve brought the Public Whip website to the voters of
this city. It’s our tiny contribution to democracy. We hope to inspire
other people with our example so they bring their own democracy
projects to places where it matters, like this by-election and other
elections in the future, to help voters make an informed choice.
Democracy is too important to be left to the political parties alone."

About the Public Whip

The Public Whip ( http://www.publicwhip.org.uk ) is a website that
scans Hansard, the official Parliamentary record, for all the votes by
MPs and sorts them into a database for further analysis. It was
originally written by Francis Irving and Julian Todd in 2003. All the
software is free and open source and is completely self-funded and
maintained by volunteer work.

Email team@publicwhip.org.uk or call Francis on 07970 543358 for more.

ENDS

***********************************************************************
* What you can do!

a) If you have friends near Crewe & Nantwich, then please send them
this special by-election voting record quiz.

   http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/byelection

b) Help us out! If you'd like to help deliver leaflets in Crewe &
Nantwich, please email team@publicwhip.org.uk and give a phone number.
You'll get to meet the people behind Public Whip, and other
volunteers.

c) Get ready for the next election. We're looking for volunteers to
help maintain vote lists for different issues. If you're interested
in politics and Parliament, we can teach you what you need to know!
Email team@publicwhip.org.uk

d) This is just a trial. Email team@publicwhip.org.uk if you'd like
to help in your area at the next General Election.

***********************************************************************
     Please forward this to any friends you have near Crewe!
***********************************************************************

Subscribe a new address to this newsletter? Sign up here.
http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/newsletters/signup.php

Want to stop getting this newsletter?
http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/U/$TOKEN

Write to a Lord to tell them not to pass the Freedom of Information (Amendment) Bill
http://www.writetothem.com/lords 
