Subject: 42 days votes, and track your own pet policy

Welcome to the fourteenth Public Whip newsletter.

***********************************************************************

Today the citizens of Haltemprice and Howden are re-electing David Davis
as their MP, following his sudden resignation from Parliament last month
over the vote to institute 42 days detention without charge of terrorism
suspects.  In his own words, Davis ran his campaign on the challenges to
our fundamental freedoms of the rise of the database state and the growth
of a surveillance society.

Even though the votes in Parliament by other MPs will count exactly the
same as David Davis's, they are unlikely to devote so much time
publicizing their own record on this single issue during their re-election
campaigns.  Therefore it's up to the citizens to make themselves aware of
what there representative stands for on any single issue which they care
about.

To coincide with the by-election, Julian Todd has built a special web-page
using Public Whip data that allows anyone to compare their political
opinions with the detailed votes of their elected representative on the
issue of pre-charge detention of terrorist suspects in "extreme
circumstances" in less than thirty seconds.  See it here.

    http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/fortytwodays

This is an example of just one single issue that is in the news.

This web-technology is open source and freely available for use by any
issues based group who is willing to base their campaign on informed
public opinion, and the actual statutory consequences of the votes cast by
MPs.

Please contact us team@publicwhip.org.uk with feedback or any requests for
help.

***********************************************************************

Subscribe a new address to this newsletter? Sign up here.
http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/newsletters/signup.php

Want to stop getting this newsletter?
http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/U/$TOKEN

Sign the pledge to help out at the *next* by-election.
http://www.pledgebank.com/byelectionwhip
