Subject: Public Whip Newsletter #7 - Motion Text Editing and Real MPs

Welcome to the seventh Public Whip newsletter.

Inside this issue:
  * PublicWhip used by MPs and prospective MPs
  * Attention all Campaigners!
  * Site Update: Editing motion text
  * Public Whip and Friends in the News

The Public Whip ( http://www.publicwhip.org.uk ) is a project to
data-mine the record of Members of the United Kingdom Parliament, so
that you can hold them to account.

***********************************************************************
PublicWhip used by MPs and prospective MPs

When Julian thought up Public Whip, he wanted anyone to see how MPs
voted. And now it's happening - as an MP invites their constituents to
use PW to view their voting record:
	http://www.flourish.org/blog/index.php?p=119


The LibDem prospective candidate for Brentford and Isleworth has
a Dream MP (http://www.andrewdakers.com/) showing how he'd vote:
    http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/forum/viewtopic.php?t=8


The blog of Sandra Gidley MP - links to PublicWhip,
TheyWorkForYou.com and FaxYourMP.com
	http://romseyredhead.blogspot.com/


Send us any more examples you see over the election period.

***********************************************************************
Attention All Campaigners!

Does your MP say one thing about Hunting, Top Up Fees, Iraq, Europe or
Health, but vote however their leaders tell them to?

PublicWhip allows you to create a "Dream MP" who votes as you like.
That Dream MP can then be compared to any other MP (real or dream) for
the votes you care about.

With an election possibly a couple of months away, now is possibly the
best time to hold your MP (or all MPs) to account on topics of
interest to you.

      http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/dreammps.php


***********************************************************************
Motion Text Editing

Above the motion text for every parliamentary division, we currently
make the following statement:

   "Procedural text extracted from the debate, so you can try to work
   out what 'aye' (for the motion) and 'no' (against the motion)
   meant. This is for guidance only, irrelevant text may be shown,
   crucial text may be missing."

While www.theyworkforyou.com helps make debates more friendly, it
doesn't make the motions more readable, and we still often guess it
wrong. Not only that, even when we get it right, the accurate text
uses too much Parliamentary jargon and refers to other documents by
citing page and line numbers (for example).

Public Whip now allows anyone to write a plain english version of the
motion, with links to explanations and relevant document.

Julian took on the task of doing all the Iraq votes and the
counter-terrorism legislation. This was before the events of 9th and
10th of March 2005 when they held 20 votes on this law. Many of those
were based on scraps of paper printed at 4 o'clock in the morning
which were not filed online in a place where they could be found.
Nevertheless, he did as well as he could and you are invited to have a
look at the examples
        http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/division.php?date=2005-03-10&number=136

We are calling for anyone who is passionate about other issues in
Parliament that have been subject to frequent, repeated votes by MPs.
It could be immigration, education, the environment, transport, ID
cards, international development, and so on.  Find the divisions, mark
them with a Dream MP, and fix the motion text so that other people can
see the precise measures that were voted upon.  Public Whip is about
informed choice, and not having to take anyone's word for things.

        http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/


***********************************************************************
Public Whip and Friends in the News


TheyWorkForYou / FYMP win prizes (theyworkforyou.com)
       http://www.guardian.co.uk/online/story/0,,1374155,00.html

"Why I love ... theyworkforyou.com" (theyworkforyou.com)
       http://www.guardian.co.uk/g2/story/0,3604,1351239,00.html

Interesting Guardian article: (publicwhip.org.uk, theyworkforyou.com, writetothem.com)
       http://money.guardian.co.uk/ethicalliving/story/0,13437,1337834,00.html

Interesting Independent article:
       http://news.independent.co.uk/world/science_technology/story.jsp?story=585973

mySociety Guardian article:
       http://www.guardian.co.uk/online/story/0,3605,1363817,00.html

Waltham Forest Guardian:
       http://www.walthamforestguardian.co.uk/news/localnews/display.var.558148.0.mp_claims_he_is_doing_his_best.php

Times gossip (DowningStreetSays.com):
       http://www.timesonline.co.uk/article/0,,2-1457724_2,00.html

Mention of TWFY in Guardian diary:
       http://www.guardian.co.uk/diary/story/0,3604,1388270,00.html

Democracy.org.uk in Guardian:
       http://www.guardian.co.uk/online/story/0,3605,1398909,00.html


***********************************************************************
Forward this newsletter to people who are interested
***********************************************************************

Subscribe a new address to this newsletter? Sign up here.
http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/account/register.php

Want to stop getting this newsletter? Login here and cancel your
subscription. http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/account/settings.php

