Subject: Public Whip Newsletter #1 - Surveying parliament, liaising with Hansard
Date: Fri, 31 Oct 2003 10:59:58 +0000
                                                                                    
Welcome to the first Public Whip newsletter!   

Inside this issue:
* Editorial
* Feature Article: "Surveying Parliament"
* Site Updates: "Clustering, Attendance and Friends"
* Project Spotlight: "Hansard Liaison"

***********************************************************************
Editorial

It's been very busy the last couple of weeks here in Cambridge, after a
barrage of traffic from NTK ( http://www.ntk.net ). Thanks for signing up!
We had to tune the speed of the website to cope with all of you, and
keep our ISP happy.

The clocks have slipped back, but as the cold sets in new-democracy
websites are springing up everywhere. Even the corporate BBC are in on
the act, with the promising iCan ( http://www.bbc.co.uk/dna/ican
currently in testing ) designed to help everyone campaign on issues that
matter to them. Try it out.

As always, send us email (team@publicwhip.org.uk) with any ideas,
suggestions or comments about the Public Whip website or this
newsletter. We look forward to hearing from you.

 - Francis, The Public Whip (http://www.publicwhip.org.uk)

***********************************************************************
Surveying Parliament - Feature Article by Julian

The history of the UK Parliament has been a journey from deep
corruption, misrule, and rotten boroughs, towards democracy,
accountability, and universal suffrage.  After the events of this year,
no one can say that this journey is complete.

Parliamentary scandals do still happen.  Often they are forgotten.  One
of the most important in recent history was analysed by the Scott
Inquiry of 1991 which exposed the ties between the arms industry and our
government.  It was about sales of weapons to Iraq which, though
officially illegal (as a consequence of popular pressure, because Saddam
Hussein was an "evil dictator who killed his own people -- since 1979"),
had continued with the personal blessing of serving cabinet ministers. 

It's tempting to see scandals as a sign of democracy and accountability
working, because in a dictatorship such things couldn't happen.  But
that's like saying that if trains frequently pounded into the buffers at
the ends of the tracks at the station, the brakes must be working.  In a
dictatorship we wouldn't have any buffers, and the trains would mount
the platform and career off down the road. 

Over time mechanisms have been introduced to build openness and
accountability into our parliament. For example, in 1978 the Register of
Members interests was established. This has by no means put an end to
"conflicts of interest" (which result in questionable decisions), but it
makes them a whole lot easier to track down and criticise.

The Official Record, Hansard, came into existence as part of 
parliament as recently as 1909. Before then the need was supplied by
newspapers. Before 1771 it was illegal to report the Parliamentary
debates in a newspaper.

The quantity of material in Hansard is absolutely staggering. Normally,
it takes full time professionals to dredge up stories out of the weight
of documents. Most of these people are employed by corporations,
political lobbying companies, or newspapers; not many can afford to work
for the public interest.

However, this is the new era of powerful free software technology. It's
less than a few years old.  We can use computers to scan, search,
collate and publish extracts of information, such as voting records,
stated opinions in speeches, attendance records, and written answers
like never before. We're going to uncover glaring patterns of deceit and
denial, and astonishing stories of unsung persistence, honour and
dignity.

Would you like an explanation for why bad policies were carried through?
To easily find out how they can be avoided?  Anyone can pick the subject
they are interested in, and follow it carefully. The computer can
compile the files, share the stories, and notify the watchers. 

Government is on its best behaviour when it knows it's being watched.

***********************************************************************
Clustering, Attendance and Friends - Site Updates by Francis

Clustering questions? Julian's rewritten the Vote Map FAQ to explain
what it's all about. Scroll down this page and have a read:
http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/mpsee.php

What exactly do the ambiguous rebellion and attendance figures mean?
When can they be misleading about an MP? Read a full clarification here.
http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/faq.php#clarify

Confused by the Possible Friends list? It was unclear as quite often
large numbers of MPs voted exactly the same as each other. We've
improved the display to indicate this, and you can now expand it to view
all friends in order. For example, Tony Blair has 158 MPs who have
always voted the same as him.
http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/mp.php?firstname=Tony&lastname=Blair&constituency=Sedgefield

***********************************************************************
Hansard Liaison - Project Spotlight by Francis

The Public Whip puts the pages on the parliamentary website through
punishing tests, which immediately highlight small typing mistakes in
gigabytes of data. It's rare that you'll notice an error with the human
eye, but to us writing the software it appears that they are everywhere.

I spend a lot of time trying to get an answer to ambiguities from the
folk at the official record. This is confusing and difficult, but also
quite interesting to explore a bureaucracy which is actually very
helpful, and does eventually fix things.

There's a lot of work, and you don't need to be a geek to help out with
it. We're using a simple web bug-tracking system to keep track of all
the errors that need clearing up. Have a look at some of them here:
http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?atid=602722&group_id=87640&func=browse

If you'd like to help out, you can dig straight in, and start following
up some of the errors. This involves ringing up the right people in
parliament or the publishing company. Full details about the structure
and who to contact are here.
http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/project/liaison.php

Send me an email, francis@publicwhip.org.uk, if you would like to help
out and have any questions!

***********************************************************************
See you again soon... Why not forward this now to a friend?
***********************************************************************

Subscribe a new address to this newsletter? Sign up here.
http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/account/register.php

Want to stop getting this newsletter? Login here and cancel your
subscription.  http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/account/settings.php
